1. Shekel is played on a 7x8 board, containing 56 squares. Thusly, there are seven columns (labelled A - G) and eight rows (labelled 1 - 8) of squares. The objective of the game of shekel is to move as many shekels to the opponent’s side of the board as possible – but more on that later.
2. Two sheklers (controlling the white and black stukje, one colour per shekler) play the game of shekel at a given time on the same board. The shekler who plays white may sit closer to column 1 - that area is considered their side, while the shekler playing black may sit closer to column 8, again, defining that as the black shekler's side. The white shekler moves first, then each shekler takes turns moving one stuck at a time from the space which the stuck presided at the start of the turn to another space.
3. a) There are three types of stukje in the game of shekel: the shekel (not to be confused by the game, or the taking process - see vocabulary), the whekel and the fisher.
    b)  The seven white shekels are located on row 2, columns A - G, while the seven black shekels are located on row 7, columns A - G. The four white whekels are all located on row 1, but on column B, C, E and F, and the four black whekels are on the same columns, but all on row 8.  The fisher starts the game as a white piece on column D and row 5.
    c) A shekel may move one square towards the opponent's side (for example, the shekel starting on column A moving  from row 2 to row 3 but staying on column A) only altering its row, never its column; while a whekel may move diagonally one space, meaning that the resultant row and column of the whekel after moving will be different from the starting row and column, but only by one letter or number (for example, a whekel may move from column C, row 1 to column D, row 2). The fisher may move to any square adjacent to the square on which it presided before moving, as well as being able to move like a whekel. All stukje must move to one of the 56 squares from one of the 56 squares – they may not move off the board. It is important to note that the shekel must move towards the opponent's side, thus only being able to move to one square at any given time, but the other stukje are not bound by this rule. This means that the whekel, if not obstructed by another stukje or by the edge of the board, has the ability to move to four unique spaces on the board, while the fisher has the ability to move to nine. Therefore, if the shekler chooses to move one of their whekels, or the fisher, they must subsequently choose to which of the available spaces the stuck will move (keeping in mind that it can only move to one space per turn).
4. A shekling occurs when multiple stukje of one side and a single stuck, or multiple stukje, of the other side preside on the same column, with each of the stukje necessary for the shekling being adjacent to one other stuck participating in the shekling. Thusly, there may not be any squares empty of stukje between any two of the pieces participating in the shekling. Most sheklings will not occur if there are an equal number white and black stukje, except in the case of exceptions, which I shall mention as I get to them. A shekler may not cause a shekling which makes one of the stukje of their colour be removed from the board. If the fisher participates in a shekling it switches colours, going from black to white, or white to black, even if it, being any other piece, would be removed from the board. As many sheklings may occur in a turn as is possible. There are many different variations of the shekling procedure based on how the pieces of each colour are arranged and interspersed between each other, which I shall define below:
   a) The common shekling is the most frequently occurring types of shekel. This occurs when only one black stuck is adjacent to a white stuck, and all the other black stukje are only adjacent to other black stukje, and all the white stukje are only adjacent to other white ones. Therefore, from one shekler’s view, there will be a line of adjacent white stukje, the white stuck adjacent to the black stuck, and then a line of adjacent black stukje. In this situation, whichever colour has the lesser amount of stukje participating in the shekling is the loser of the shekling. The loser’s stuck, which is the only stuck adjacent to a stuck of the opposite colour, is removed from the board. Then, the victor’s stuck (that was adjacent to the stuck which was just removed from the board) must move, despite the fact that the victor has already moved on that turn to cause the shekling, unless the square to which the stuck would move is already occupied by another stuck. If the stuck which must move is a shekel, it moves as it normally would at the start of a turn, unless the fisher was shekeled, in which case the square would be occupied, and so the shekel must not move. If the stuck is a whekel, it must move diagonally towards the opponent’s side, and towards the centre of the board (column D) – a move possible at the start of the turn, but mandatory in this scenario. If this space is occupied, it must move diagonally towards the opponent’s side, but away from the centre, and if that space is occupied, it must not move. If the stuck is a fisher, it must move as if it were a shekel – in this scenario.
   b) The saucy shekling occurs when a stuck is adjacent to two stukje of the opposite colour – all being on the same column, as previously outlined. Only three pieces are considered to participate in this type of shekling. The sole stuck adjacent to the two enemy stukje is removed from the board, and in this scenario, no extra moves must be made.
   c) The spicy shekling occurs when a stuck is adjacent to a stuck of the same colour, which is in turn also adjacent to an enemy stuck, this third stuck also adjacent to a stuck of its colour, the fourth stuck also adjacent to a final stuck of the colour of the first and second stukje. The third stuck is taken and no extra moves must be made.
   d) Another type of shekling occurs when two stukje of the same colour are adjacent to each other, with one adjacent to an enemy stuck. This third stuck is adjacent to a stuck of its same colour, which is adjacent to another set of two stukje of the same colour as the first two on the other side of the column, thusly totalling 6 stukje. Both of the middle stukje, whose colour is a minority, are removed from the board.
5. If a white shekel moves to row 8, or a black one moves to row 1 (using any of the aforementioned moving procedures) the shekler playing white or the shekler playing black respectively has scored a point. The shekel is then removed from the board, but must be kept distinctly separate from the other pieces that were removed because of sheklings.  When there are no more shekels left on the board of a certain colour, all the other shekels still on the board are considered to have scored, and are placed in the pile of shekels which have scored. Whoever of the two sheklers playing the game has removed the most shekels, either by taking them to the opponent’s side of the board or by removing them after all the enemy shekels were removed from the board, wins.  If the amount of shekels that scored points is the same, whoever has the most whekels remaining on the board wins. If the sheklers possess the same amount of whekels still on the board, whoever is in control of the fisher is deemed victor. If the remaining whekels must be counted, the victor has won by whekel tiebreak, but if the controller of the fisher must be observed, the victor has won by fisher tiebreak.
